The Joe Rogan experience. <laugh>,
bank's too big to fail. If the banks failed and the people fail people.
That's, unbelievunbelievable manunbelievable and all this that we're spent.
I mean, the veenezuela, all these sanctions, uh,
it is the venicenezuelala coup I mean, were you following that? That was insane.
Well.
I was it as much as you were sort of putting all as much,
you were putting a very alternative view mm-hmm <affirmative>, uh,
as opposed to like what we're seeing in either left or right.
Wing publications mm-hmm <affirmative> you were, and,
and you faced a lot of resistance because of that. Right, right, right.
But you were there.
Yes. Yes. I was there. And that's why I, I knew with my own, I mean,
I saw with my own eyes, the reality on the ground. And.
What do you think is happening over there?
So what is happening over there? I mean, if you pull Venezuelans themselves,
they will say that their quality of life has lessened because of us sanctions.
So back in 2015, Obama declared Venezuelan national security threat,
very ran am. There was no threat, obviously posed to the us,
but it was just to kind of start the sanctions on them.
But what was the justifi justification? Who knows, who knows pressure?
I mean,
there's always been pressure because of course the us has always hated Maduro
and hated Huggo Chavez and the us empirere doesn't forget.
And it doesn't forgive. And, you know,
going back to 2000 who Bush tried to engineer coup against hug go Chavaz that
didn't work.
And so what we've done with these civil society organizations is try to foment
radical discontent on the ground in Venezuela to try to, you know,
get some sort of uprising. Um, the guy,
Juan wado was just some guy plucked from obscurity who was just well known
in George town in Washington, DC,
much more well known there than he was even in Venezuela. So, you know,
this was completely engineered. It was totally concocted. No Venezuelans really,
um, knew who he was.
I think like 80% of Venezuelan had no idea who Juan waido was, but, um,
you know,
the economy went into a spiral because oilpri prices dropped and they would've
been able to pick back up their economy.
But unfortunately the sanctions were so debilitating that it went into complete
free fall. Um, Venezuela's not a socialist country.
That's actually the vast majority is private industry. And a lot of those, um,
private CEOs are very anti-government. Um,
long story short is that the coup was, you know,
during the Trump administration,
after he slapped like 70 sanctions on Venezuela,
and we're talking about medicine, food,
all the things that they're saying that they need, right.
That they're trying to stage these fake aid caravan deliveries. That was all.
What they're doing is actually preventing the delivery from food in medicine,
from getting to Venezuelans.
And this coup was a failure because the zillions of the Venezuelan people,
they believe that they have a democracy.
They do have a democracy it's actually more free than, than our democracy.
There's not a dictatorship there. Um, Maduro won a presidential election.
Last year, he won a presidential election.
The us lobbied the opposition candidates to not run against him.
So then they can say it was illegitimate that it was a dictatorship.
And so he won,
he won the popular vote and they tried to implement all these things and they've
been blocked. And, you know,
the opposition keeps crying to the us that they need help,
that they need to be invaded.
It's pretty disturbing when you have candidates saying slap sanctions on us,
invade our country, help us, Trump help us. I mean, it's absolutely ridiculous.
But when I was on the ground, I saw flourishing democracy.
I saw dozens of people,
hundreds of people who said that they love the process there,
that they believe in the Bavarian movement and that their chavemotil death.
And we don't understand stand because those people's voices are totally censored
from corporate media.
The only Venezuelans that we hear from in corporate media are rich opposition,
either, you know, expats or people who just have fled.
And what do we hear from corporate media? What is, what is the corporate take?
So this is even Elizabeth Warren, even Bernie Sanders has been terrible on this.
Um, I mean, it's, 's really bad. I mean, their take on corporate media.
If you're looking at like Fox news,
they'll say we need to overthrow Maduro and you know,
everyone's starving and it's a failed state. Um,
they never mentioned the sanctions.
They never mentioned the fact that us sanctions just from 2017 alone has killed
40,000 Venezuelans.
This was just a study out by deeper 40,000 Venezuelan have died from,
from Trump's sanctions, from insulin shipments,
not getting there primarily. Um, um,
a lot of other things, um,
medicine wise that people have not been getting and they are dying.
So that is absurd. You know, we,
we like to think of sanctions as kind of like the soft power or that just
targets elites of the country. No,
it's an act of war and that's exactly what's happening to Iran.
And Trump's implemented sanctions all over the world in a really devastating
way. But, but the corporate media will say, we need to overthrow them.
Their failed state. They're, you know, they're a dictatorship. Um, and reality,
no, they're not they're democracy. And they, we don't like their politics.
That's really what it is. We don't like the, is it about the,
that their politics, their politics are that they nationize the oil.
And that's really where it comes from this fake ambassador that was trying to
get into the embassy here. Carlosveio, he's an ex Exxon lawyer.
And you see all of these people who were involved in Exxon Mobil and all of the
oil industries that, um,
were flow INE in Venezuela before Chavez got a got elected and they just want
their profits back. They want their money back.
They don't like the fact that Chavez took the profits from the oil companies.
That's what the, that's what the crux of the problem is, Joe. Um,
and it's amazing. It's amazing how transparent it is.
So ever since these failed coup attempts over the last decade,
the us have been foment in regime change through the civil society
organizations, U S a I D offshoots in the country. And, um,
and basically trying to foment violent unrest, violent unrest,
to the extent that they burned down streets, there's Lynch mobs. I mean,
when I was there during the height of the violence in 2017,
like 200 people died and the news just kept saying mad,
like insinuating that Maduro was going out there with police forces and actually
gunning down people in the streets. It couldn't be farther from the truth.
We looked at all the deaths, we broke them all down.
We looked at death records and, um,
we found out that the opposition Lynch mobs were actually responsible for the
overwhelming majority of deaths in the streets. So that's happening.
People get lynched for being black. They get lynched for being Chavezmo.
These people are targeting maternity clinics, hospitals,
basically any enclave of government services,
because that's what this is really about.
It's about of kind of a fascistic bent of the opposition,
wanting to take back the power from the poor,
the poor people got power and they didn't like it.
And that's what the crux of the problem is.
But when you're looking at the corporate media,
it's an absurdly cartoonish brush that's being painted.
And then if you look at the liberal media with mattow and all these other
people, they either don't talk about it.
Or they say Maduro needs to let the a aidden you even saw Bernie and Elizabeth
Warren saying Maduro needs to let the Aidin let the aid in Maduro.
The aidide was the coup the aidide was, was a trick.
They're getting aid every day from countries that are not trying to actively
overthrow them, but we stage this big stunt on the border, um, of Columbia.
And by the way, Columbia's actually suffering more than Venezuela.
<laugh> Columbias in I poverty,
there's people getting assassinated every week who are labor leaders and
teachers.
I went there and I talked to a teacher who's living in exile cause he's scared
for his life. Um, but we don't hear about that, right?
Because their allies with the us, um, so it's,
it's cynical stunt to try to get this humanitarian international
outcry to say, oh, my people are dying. People are hungry.
It's not a matter of that.
There's no food it's that food is very expensive because there's an actual
economic war being waged by massive corporations in the country and just
external entities,
whether it be the Trump administration or us multinationals that are
exphixxiating preventing aid in food from coming in.
And the a that they're they're claiming that they need to accept is basically a
hoax. It's a stunt, um, to try to get regime change, to, to happen. Um,
we just saw Richard Branson stage some ridiculous, um,
big concert on the border of Columbia.
And they had like what they said were aid trucks on this big bridge.
And you had CNN on the ground being like, all right,
they need to let the aid in. Why don't they let the aid in? And the aid was,
it was fake. It was just a truck full of like, I don't know,
like very minuscule things,
but they wanted to try to Ram these trucks through just to get the soldiers up
in arms and to try to get them to defect it. Hasn't worked.
They've been trying over and over gonna try to get to something going.
And basically at the end of the day, what happened was just a,
a giant money grab. It was basically a money laundering scheme.
You look at these people who are the opposition leaders. Now,
Juan wado carlosveio, they've just stolen all the money back. Um,
maybe they realized the co wasn't gonna go forward,
but they basically ended up stealing at least 70 million and just putting it
right in these people's bank accounts. It's pretty shocking. I mean,
you have international,
it's an international conspiracy to try to take the money back from,
from the people whose money is was, was basically, um,
ministered by Maduro for social.
And root of it all. And is nationalizing the oil.
Nationalizing, the oil is the root of it all. And also just uplifting the poor.
I mean, poor people got a voice and they never had a voice in that country,
their entire lives. And that country was, you know, it was a colonial holdover.
And so the bowl ofarian movement started this pink tide all across Latin
America. And, um, it was scary. It was a giant threat to the us establishment.
And actually that's why telesor was founded. Telesor the, the,
the organization that I used to sell the show to,
it was started as kind of a counter to this global higemony in this corporate
narrative, trying to overthrow these dedemocratically elected leaders.
But it's shocking when you see like the bank of England,
see seized all of this gold, that was rightfully madeuros.
They seized it illegally. All of these,
these banks and international bodies just stole all this money and they just
gave it to these opposition leaders.
So even though the opposition leaders weren't able to take, you know,
take the power back in the country, they still have taken all the money.
And no one's talking about that. And everyone just like,
this is some crazy dictatorship that needs our saving. How dare you?
Who the do we think we are.
We're uninformed, right? Yeah. Is.
That what it is? Yeah. You should check out. Everyone should check out our,
our empire files, um, YouTube channel,
cause we've done extensive coverage on the ground,
really going into the nuts and bolts of what the economic crisis really is.
And my partner, Mike Pricener did this epic takedown of John Oliver. You know,
the liberal media is just as bad.
John Oliver did some absurdly false kind of like
analysis of the whole Venezuela situation.
And we just went through and debunked every single line of it. I mean,
it was extremely disingenuous. I bet.
He had someone who wrote all that. Right, right.
So I bet he probably has no real knowledge of it, nor could you really,
unless you extensively studied it the way you have,
and especially if you have feet on the ground. Right.
I think that most people just in,
in order to understand a complex nuanced problem,
like some sort of an international conflict that we're involved in that has to
do with nationalizing oil, like, God, you gotta do a lot of work. You do,
you do.
And have you run a show like last week tonight or whatever the the show's
called.
You have producers doing everything for you. Yeah.
Someone else is doing that. I mean, you, you find that with a lot of these,
so- called online experts.
And when you talk to them one on one and you get them off the record without
notes, like they're just.
People, well, there's this guy,
this UN human rights investigator named Alfred dezaas that I did this big
interview with. And he said, he tried to propose this to the UN saying,
there is no, no humanitarian crisis there. This is all fake. Yes,
people are suffering and dying,
but it's not because of Maduro's policies and corruptions.
This is because of us sanctions that have exphyxiated the economy and prevented
any sort of recovery from taking place.
And the economy is still in free fall.
They can't work with international bodies. Again,
we have the threats of sanctions with instant institus that now work with
Venezuela. So they've been isolated, they've been isolated from the world.
So is the idea that they just put these sanctions in place,
allow this political unrest to take place,
support the opposition and then just have a slow burn until it all collapses.
Yes. And then they come in and swoop in and, and fix everything and mm-hmm,
<affirmative> make it a part of the United States government. And.
Then these people will not have a voice any longer. And, um,
another thing that they hate is that madeuro's given 2 million free homes to
people. That's something that's completely unheard of to maybe Americans.
But that's one thing that Juan waido said that he would do, he,
he immediately implemented a new hydrocarbons law or he was proposing to
implement a new hydrocarbons law, which is again, you know,
repriatizing the oil. And also,
so just immediately privatizing all of the social services that Madeuro and
Chavez did. So it it's, it's pretty shocking what would happen,
um, and pretty devastating. What would happen if,
if yidos co did succeed and the whole Trump administration, I mean,
it's not just Venezuela. It's Nicaragua and Cuba too. I mean,
we can't go to Cuba anymore. Yeah.
That's a new one, right? Yeah. Yeah. When did that happen? Yeah.
This a couple weeks ago, right? Yeah. Mm-hmm <affirmative> what was the purpose?
I mean, what was the, uh, rationalism?
Because socialism is terrifying and we can't just let this small island nation
just live its life.
We have to create some genocital blockade that prevents food and medicine from
getting in there too. But.
What was the did, was there a justification?
Did they say why they were doing doing this while they're imposing these new.
Laws? No, its just John Bolton's bizarre speech about the troyica of tyranny.
Remember, remember the axis of evil. Remember that? Yeah. It's a,
now it's a Troy of tyranny. Nicaragua, Cuban. Venicenezuela it's like, wait,
I thought that I thought that we were fighting a war on terrorism. We're.
Going off to Nicaragua too. Yeah. Cuz of.
Ortega. Yeah. They hate who leans left.
They want to crush crush.
It's pretty nuts. What's happened. The Cuba one is.
A weird one. Right? The Cuba ones. Cause what, what has happened over there?
Nothing there's there's no, they're not. Yeah. They haven't.
Done anything to us.
The only thing they just did was actually give out free HIV prevention pills and
they uh, well.
That's where they up. Which <laugh> big.
Pharma. Yeah.
That's where they up. We're not into that.
Yeah. No it's the Venezuela. Thing's a mess.
It's it's so difficult because it's so nuanced, but that's, you know,
I encourage everyone to maybe check out Venezuela analysis and empire files and
telesor, if they wanna learn more about that situation.
I.